---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: Polynomials and Elliptic Curves over Extension Fields
category: uc

---

{% include mathjax.html %}

Below we look at 2 things

- Polynomial Basis Representation for Extension Fields  

- Elliptic Curves over an Extension Field   


**Polynomial Basis Representation for Extension Fields**   

Let's look at Extension fields of the form $F_{2^k}$ as an example to see how - i.e. $F_{p^k}$ where $p = 2$. These are called as Binary Fields.

Here, the elements of $F_{2^k}$ are polynomials whose coefficients are in the field $F_2$ = {0,1}. The degree of the polynomial is less than or equal to $k − 1$

Each element $A(x)$ in $F_{2^k}$ would be of the form  $a_{k−1}x^{k−1} +a_{k−2}x^{k−2} +···+ a_{2}x^{2} +a_{1}x + a_0$ with $a_i \in {0,1}$

Let's take $F_{2^4}$ - here the polynomials will be of the form $a_{3}x^3 + a_{2}x^2 + a_{1}x + a_0$ with each coefficient $a_i$ being equal to either 0 or 1. Since each co-efficient of a polynomial is either 0 or 1, it's similar to a bit & all the co-efficients of one polynomial can be considered as a bit-string or a vector space. For e.g. $x^3 + x + 1$ can be represented as the bit string (1011), $x^2 + x$ is (0101). In general, the finite field $F_{p^k}$ can be viewed as a vector space over its subfield $F_p$. 

The 16 polynomials in $F_{2^4}$ can be viewed as the bit representations of all the numbers {0, 1, ...., 15}

**Group Operations**  

**Addition**  

Addition of field elements is the usual addition of polynomials, with coefficient addition performed modulo 2   

**Multiplication**  
For a field $F_p^{k}$, an irreducible binary polynomial P(x) of degree k is chosen (such a polynomial exists for any k and can be efficiently found). Multiplication of field elements is done modulo the irreducible polynomial. 

**Use of $F_{2^8}$ in AES**
One byte is 256 bits. So in AES, $F(2^{8})$ is used with $x^{8} + x^{4} + x^{3} + x + 1$ as the irreducible polynomial. In AES, if 2 bytes have to be multiplied, each byte is represented as a polynomial (the bits of the bytes form the coefficients of the polynomial) of degree 7 or less. After multiplying the 2 polynomials, they are reduced by modulo the irreducible polynomial of degree 8, which results in a polynomial of degree 7 or lesser which will again fit in a byte, thereby providing closure. 

**Elliptic Curves over Extension Fields**  

----  

**Note:** This part assumes you are already familiar with how Elliptic Curves over regular Finite Fields ($F_p$) work. 

If you aren't familiar with this, Cryptography, you can check out these videos   

- [Introduction to Elliptic Curves by Mike Pound](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NF1pwjL9-DE)
- [Introduction to Elliptic Curves by Chrisof Paar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnpZXJL6QCQ)

The above videos cover Elliptic Curves over Prime Fields $F_p$ but not over Extension Fields $F_{p^k}$

---  


Elliptic Curves over Finite fields (including Extension Fields) have 2 group structures involved. 

- When an Elliptic curve is defined over a Field F, then the co-ordinates of the Weierstrass equation of the curve are elements of the field - this field is also called the underlying Field. 

- The points on the curve themselves form a separate Group Structure - an additive Group, where the elements of the Group (the Points) can be added. 

Let's take the example of an Elliptic curve $\#E: y^2 + xy = x^3 + ax^2 + b$ over the extension field $F_2^{k}$. 

**Group Law**  

**Point Addition**

Let $P = (x_1, y_1)$ and $Q = (x_2, y_2) \in #E(F_2^{k}), where $P \ne \pm Q$. Then $P + Q = (x_3, y_3), where   


$x_3 = \lambda^2 + \lambda + x_1 + x_2 + a$

$y_3 = \lambda (x_1 + x_3)+ x_3 + y_1$

with $\lambda = (y_1 + y_2)/(x_1 + x_2)$

**Point Doubling**

$P + P = 2P = (x_3, y_3)$

$x_3 = \lambda^2 + \lambda + x_1 + x_2 + a$

$y_3 = \lambda (x_1 + x_3) + x_3 + y_1$

with $\lambda = (y_1 + y_2)/(x_1 + x_2)$

**Negative**  

$P = (x, y)$

$-P = (x,x + y)$


Let's see how to construct this curve over $F_2^{4}$. 
The in the case of elliptic curves over an Extension Field, we have 2 equations - the Ellipic Curve equation & the polynomials. We will use $x$ & $y$ for the Curve equation & $t$ as the variable for the Polynomials.

The irreducible polynomial is $t^4 + t + 1$.  

